All right my friends here we are at the final step of this implementation and actually the most exciting
one because this is the step where we're going to visualize on a nice 2D plot the prediction curve in
the prediction regions of the logistic regression model.
All right.
So more specifically what we're about to plot is a two dimensional plot with therefore to axis X and
Y on the x axis you will have the first feature corresponding to age and on the y axis you'll have the
second feature corresponding to the estimated salary and therefore each of the points you know each
of the observation points you will see on the to the plot will correspond to a specific customer it
will either be a customer of the training set you know on the plot of the training set results or a
customer of the test set on the plot of the test results and what is most interesting to see in this
plot will be the prediction regions meaning the regions where our logistic regression model predicts
the class 0 meaning the customers didn't buy the SUV and the other region where our logistic regression
model predicts the Class 1 meaning the customer bought the SUV.
And lastly what will be really interesting to see is the curve separating these two regions.
You know the region of the prediction 0 and the region of the predictions 1 and this is exactly how
we're going to see the difference between Linear classifiers and nonlinear classifier.
So here we are only starting with one classification model logistic regression.
So we want to compare that yet but you will see in the next sections of this part that the prediction
boundary you know we call this the prediction boundary between these two prediction regions will be
different depending on whether or not your classifier is linear.
All right.
So I can't wait to do this and let us start first by visualizing these training set and test results
for the logistic regression model.
All right.
So the code to visualize this is actually pretty advanced and not only it is pretty advanced but also
you will probably never use it again in your career or let's say you will never have to implement that
again.
Why is that.
Because in your career you will mostly work with data sets having many features you know more than two.
And here the only reason why we have a dataset of two features is so that we can be able to visualize
indeed well these prediction regions and prediction boundary because indeed in order to visualize this
we need maximum two features because one feature corresponds to one dimension in this plot.
So there's a code to visualize this result is only useful for training purposes and it will not be useful
for your future machinery and career.
So what I suggest is that we don't waste too much time understanding the whole code and reemployment
it ourselves because really I'm gonna show it to you right away.
You know on the original logistic regression implementation you will see that the code is pretty advanced.
You know it's not like plotting a regression curve like we did in part 2.
So that's the test results and we show you the trends that result.
All right.
So that's the code you see.
It uses a lot of tricks to plot all these observation points prediction regions and prediction boundary.
So if you want to have a look at it and understand it fine but really for the others it's totally okay.
If we don't cover this code in detail because this is only for training purposes just so that I can
show you the differences between linear classifiers and nonlinear classifiers and you will probably
never use that again in your future machine learning project.
However what I will do just now is explain how it's done.
Basically what we do is we create as you can see a grid which is basically this frame here containing
all the ages of your future and all the estimated salaries you know the ranges and you create this grid
with a high density meaning that the pixels of this grid are not separated one by one but every 0 point
twenty five.
So here for example for the age it goes this way it goes from ten to ten point twenty five to ten point
five to ten point seventy five to eleven etc. up to sixty nine sixty nine point twenty five six nine
point five sixty nine point seventy five seventy okay.
And same forward estimate its salary it goes from twenty thousand and twenty thousand point twenty five
twenty thousand point five etc up to somewhere around one hundred forty nine thousand one hundred forty
nine thousand point twenty five you see so resulting in having super dense points inside this grid and
then the trick you know what we did is not only we plotted all the real observation points in a grid
so all the points that you see here are the tumors of either your training set and then later on your
test set the green points are of course to customers who bought the SUV you know represented by one
here and the rep points.
Of course the customers who didn't buy the SUV represented by zero here.
Okay so all the points are your observation points your customers and then so the trick in order to
plot the prediction regions and therefore that prediction boundary here separating the two regions is
to apply to predict method onto each of these dense points in the grid so that all the dense points
here you know in this region were actually predicted to be zero meaning all the customers you know other
customers inside this region are predicted not to buy an SUV and all the observation points in this
green region are actually predicted to by the SUV because the region here is green representing the
predictions of one and all the red points here.
You know this red region.
Our old observation points predicted a zero meaning all the customers who would predict and not to buy
the SUV.
So you see how this works.
That's the trick.
And then really you don't have to understand all the techniques used to implement this because once
again you will probably never have to implement that kind of code in your career.
All right.
So what we're gonna do now is we're going to get that whole code you know from the original file.
We're gonna paste it inside our new implementation.
There we go.
And we're going to do the same for the test set and then I will actually try not to show you the test
now but let's get the code let's base that below in a new code sale and now let's enjoy the results.
So what we're gonna do is first execute this cell.
It's gonna take a little well actually because you know the step is open 25 meaning we will get a very
very dense crit.
As I just explained and therefore you know that predicts method is applied on each of these dance points
of the grid.
And that's why there are actually a lot lot lot of predictions to compute.
And that's why it's taking a little time.
But there you go it's coming.
Here we go.
So not that long.
That's good.
We just got the results of the training set.
Let's also plot now the results of the test set and then I will make my comments on the results.
All right.
So we can just let it run and start by observing and interpreting the results of the training set.
So just to recap you have to understand four things in this plot is that all the points that you see
here whether they're red or green are the real customers and they're real results in the training set
the green points correspond of course to the customers who put the produce as you is.
And the red points correspond of course to the customers who didn't buy any produce SUV and then the
other two things to understand is that those colored regions here in this red region and the green region
are the prediction regions.
So this region is the region where our model predicts that the customer didn't buy the SUV and this
region is the region where our logistic regression model predicts that the customers bought the previous
SUV.
And so in order to figure out where the correct predictions are and the incorrect directions are while
the correct predictions are where we have some observation points with the same color as the prediction
region and the incorrect predictions are where we have some observation points with a color that is
different than the prediction regions for example this customer here who in reality what the SUV you
know corresponding to one here is actually an incorrect prediction because it falls into the wrong region
the red region and vice versa.
This customer here who in reality didn't buy the SUV because it corresponds to zero was a wrong prediction
because it falls into the green region where customers are predicted to buy the SUV.
And then finally what's the most interesting in all this is the prediction boundary as you understood
the prediction boundary is the boundary between those two prediction regions.
You know the green prediction region and the red prediction region it is where your classifier separate
basically the two classes the class 1 and the class 0.
And now you have to understand something very very important.
It is the fact you know it is the observation that the prediction curve of the logistic regression model
is actually a straight line for one specific reason.
It is because the logistic regression model is a linear classifier for any linear classifier.
The prediction boundary or the prediction curve will always be a straight line in two dimensions in
three dimensions.
It will be a straight plan.
Okay.
So that's what we get for Linear classifiers.
And what will be really interesting to see in the next sections you know when building other classification
models is that indeed for the non linear morals like for example named baz OR kernel as VM with a nonlinear
kernel well you will see that the prediction curve or the prediction boundary will actually not be a
straight line and I won't reveal now where it will be but we will see it will be fantastic to observe.
All right.
So now you understand it better but remember that these are the training set results therefore all these
customers that we see here are actually in the training set.
Therefore these are customers with which are logistic regression or was trained and therefore that's
kind of easy to provide search results because these are exactly the observations of the training.
But now what we would like to see is how our logistic regression model was able to perform on new observations
meaning on the observations of the test that the customers of the test set because indeed the customers
of the test set are new customers with which our logistic regression model wasn't trained.
And so we have to see if our logistic regression model was still able to separate Well the two classes
meaning the customers who bought the SUV and the customers who didn't buy the SUV even despite the fact
that these are new customers on which the model wasn't trained.
And that's exactly what we're about to see now when visualizing the test results we already executed
the sale here.
And so these are the test results.
And still our logistic regression war was perfectly able to separate Well the two classes zero.
You know all those red points here and one all those green points.
There are still some incorrect predictions of course like this customer who in reality didn't buy the
new the brand new beautiful SUV but was created to buy it and a few incorrect predictions here of the
other class meaning these customers who in reality but the SUV but were predicted not to because they
fall in the red region.
All right.
And so how can we conclude here what should we conclude.
And what are the takeaways we should get for our future classification models.
Well first the logistic regression model does a very good job at separating our two classes and therefore
at predicting whether the customers but SUV but we actually would hope to build a model that has less
prediction errors.
And how can we build one what would we need to get you know as the prediction curve in order not to
predict incorrectly all these wrong predictions here.
All these customers here.
Well we actually would need a prediction boundary that is something else than a straight line because
even if you try to rotate your prediction line for example to be like that.
Well it will still catch many incorrect predictions.
So what we will need to get you know optimally is some kind of curve some kind of prediction curve that
goes this way.
Catches all the red points and all the red customers here and then go around like this in order to catch
all the red points the red customers and leave all the green points to green customers inside the green
region and well as you might guess this is what we might be able to get with nonlinear classifiers.
I won't tell you more now but be ready for some even more performance classification models that manage
to separate even better.
These two classes.
All right.
So that was the teaser for the next sections.
And now I hope you enjoyed this implementation of the logistic regression model.
Congratulations because there was a long one however after this big amount of effort will actually collect
some nice fruit because guess what.
The implementation we did here for the logistic regression model will work for all our other classification
models.
And by that what do I mean.
Well I mean that the implementation we did here is actually a very good code template.
It is a code template for classification because indeed in order to implement the other classification
models we will only have to change one single cell of this implementation which is of course the cell
where we build and train the classification model.
We will only have to change this cell where we build a classifier and train it on the training set and
all the rest will be the same.
We won't have to change anything here because we will just call our classifier to predict this single
result and then all the results in a test set.
And same for the visualization we won't have to change anything except the name of the model here.
Because indeed all the variable names will be the same.
You know the classifier which here is the logistic regression mode but in the next sections will be
the other classification models.
And then of course we have the same variable names for the training set and test set.
And so that's why we won't have anything to change in our future implementations of the classification
models except the part where indeed we build and train our classification model.
So we will be extremely efficient in our future implementations of the classification models because
we will only have to recode that cell here and that's it we'll just re implement this you know to implement
the right classification model and then we will do a run all to enjoy.
Adrienne the final results.
You know the new prediction regions and especially the ones for the non-linear model where we're hoping
to get a regression curve that goes like this in order to catch the maximum right predictions.
All right.
So there we go.
That was the big part of the job you did it and now follow me in the next sections to implement the
other classification models.
And until then enjoy machine learning.